we are building a basement apartment
here it's all new construction we're
starting from scratch that's one of my
favorite ways to work is because we can
build everything just the way we want it
one of the most important things about
putting in a washroom which is the
section we're working on today is the
tub or the shower surround
conventionally it was either laughing
plaster maybe drywall maybe cement board
and people put that up as their
protection behind their tiles you need
to protect the framework of the home you
need to protect your house from mold
mildew water damage people think the
tiles are the waterproofing incorrect
tiles are porous the growth is porous
moisture gets through humidity gets
through you need to protect your home
behind those tiles I always say it's
more important what's behind the
finishes than the finishes themselves
and we are using occur deboard today
this is a fantastic product it's
replacing drywall in this situation it
has a waterproof membrane on both sides
it has a foam core easy to cut easy to
put up it is a full water membrane we've
already cut around the valve and the
spouts on that side we're gonna start
putting all the pieces in we should have
this up in no time
once you have them in place two things
that are fantastic number one is that
the boards have a grid pattern on them
makes it easier to tile you don't have
to draw any lines
this piece here you ready to put it
online yep we're gonna put it in with
screws and washers and then we will go
over each piece with a small piece of
Kearney this is just a piece of
kerdi-band
we are still using Kerdi itself been
using Kirti for a long time you do not
have to demolish everything if your
walls are in good condition you can go
over your existing tub surround your
existing wall board with the membrane
itself you mortar it on and you've
created the same waterproof membrane if
you're starting from scratch as we are
this is the preferred method it's easier
it's faster it combines two steps into
one exactly what we're doing
the kerdi-board itself is waterproof
it's fantastic but what I like is the
whole Schluter system which comes with
all the pieces to make sure you have a
completely sealed system everything from
the spout and then we will order this
right to the wall to the shower valve
you want to make sure this section is
sealed there aren't really any other
systems out there that cover every base
like this and once we mortar this to the
wall and once we cover all of our screws
and washers we will have a full seal on
here which is like no other system out
there
I finished off this bathroom with a very
low-profile tub and a classic brick
pattern tile installation with a little
bit of a detail there I think it looks
fantastic
but more importantly I know that with
the kerdi-board in behind here and all
the waterproofing that was done that
this is going to last a long time with
low to no maintenance for more
information go to Schluter com